# Individual Capstone Assessment

This project focuses on creating a mobile application or a web development application that would help support local animal shelters for temporary and long term adoptions. The application would have two focus areas: the shelter side and the customer/user side. We would have a database set up for customers to see which animals they would like to adopt. We would also set up a way for shelters to recieve donations and volunteer help. We can have seperate accounts set up for users who would like to foster animals or the animals that they are interested in. If the users would like to return their pets, because they feel like their pet is not adjusting well with them and would be better suited with another family, we could have a functionality set up, that would help them connect with other users that would be happy to adopt them. 

I took Engineering Models my freshman year and I learned how to use MATLAB in it. I was a really interesting class and one of my final projects was making a GUI which I really enjoyed making. I feel that the process for making the app or website will be similar and I look forward to starting it. I took programming courses such as C++, Python, Data Structures and Database Design. These courses have strengthened my programming skills and my problem solving skills. I am also taking User Interface right now. This course will help me make an application that is very user friendly and comfortable to use. I am also looking forward to the designing aspects of this project.

For my first co-op term, I worked at Signalysis, and for my second and third co-op terms, I worked at SHP Design, as a Software Developer. At Signalysis, I developed their proprietary software called SigQC (a quality control software). My tasks would be to add different functionalities and calculation methods to the software. I would also perform bug fixes and perform tests to ensure that the new software versions were woorking as they were supposed to. At SHP Design, I worked on Autodesk Revit. I would develop custom applications to streamline and automate data entry processes. I would update old programs to improve efficiency and perform bug fixes. For my fourth co-op term, I worked as an undergraduate researcher with Dr. Niu on his projects. I researched deep learning tools, packages and frameworks in terms of user-managable features and created taxonomies to structure research results to evaluate different deep learning solutions. I also did a Web Development course for my fifth co-op term. All the skills that I learned from my co-op terms will help me understand how the website and app for this project will come together and how each page relates to each other and how I can better its functionality, 

Some of the preliminary research will be on what the website should look like. We will discuss and divide different tasks - such as designing and developing. We will work on creating a solid base for the shelters so that we can focus on developing the code for it first. Then we will work on the customer side similarly. I feel that I will have done a good job if the application is completed to a basic level that can be used. It will be a project that can then be continuously improved upon. Our expected results are creating a working application and getting as close to that as possible.

I am really excited to work on this project as it will be the culmination of everything I have learned so far. I feel that there is a huge scope for programming and designing the look and feel of the website in this project. I am also excited at the prospect of creating a fully functional application. It is going to help many animals and shelters in need of such services. 
