# Individual Capstone Assessment
## Initial Self Assessment


My senior design project to me is about combining what I have learned throughout my five years of studies and four co-op experiences with my passions outside of computer science. I am viewing this project as an experiential way of being able to do what I love with the help of what I have learned. Throughout the past five years, I have discovered that I want to focus on user experience, that database management interests me, and that project management seems to be a role well suited for me. With this project, I will have the ability to practice the skills I have already obtained, along with gaining more personal experience in these roles. My senior design project, titled PetInsights, will be an application that bridges the gap between animal shelters and people looking to adopt. I strive to create a seamless experience for both audiences and provide creative features that will be beneficial to the needs of the users.


My Software Engineering (EECE 3093C) course with Nan Niu will be very useful for this project as I learned concepts related to creating a multi-page application. I also learned techniques of knowing how to pass data through such an application, which I believe will be necessary to use in this project. Finally, I learned about the importance of refactoring, and due to this I intend on making code refactoring one of the key steps in our project development. Concepts learned in Data Structures (CS 2028C) will undoubtedly be applied in this project, since it was in this course where I learned about different ways of grouping data. It will be my job to decide which type of data-grouping will be most efficient for several aspects of this project. As for this semester, I am taking User Interaction (CS 5167) and Website Management (IT 1040C) and am hoping that the contents I learn from these courses will aid me in my creation of this application-based project. With the UI course, I have already learned about the importance of user experience and to make sure that your project is well organized in a way that does not confuse or upset users.


PetInsights will require some database management skills, and fortunately I worked closely with a database at my second co-op with Worldpay where I interned as a software developer. During that role, I had to design and create database tables that held relationships with others. I also had to make frequent query calls to various tables to find and utilize the information I needed. This will help give me a nice head-start on how to organize the data involved in this project. General project management abilities will also be incredibly important for this project, and I have spent my last two co-ops acting as a project manager for my own projects within those companies. My first experience was with Microsoft, where I interned as a software developer and project manager and worked on the same project alongside two other interns. My second experience was at Daimler Mitsubishi FUSO where I did some data analyzing but became manager of my own project. I learned a lot about the proper steps to take while first starting a project along with how to verify that the schedule planned is still being maintained.


If I did not go into Computer Science at UC, I would have gone for a veterinarian degree since I love animals and I love doing what I can to help them. Since I am pursuing Computer Science instead, I figured using my skills in this degree to help animals is a great way to include one of my other passions. I am excited about bridging my two worlds together with this project! As for preliminary approaches to designing a solution, I used to volunteer at various animal shelters and foster animal programs, so I am relatively familiar with the issues that animal shelters face regarding exposure, returned animals, and resources. I have also researched other apps and websites that create a virtual animal-adoption experience, so along with my own ideas, I have decided to include useful aspects of these applications into this project. I hope to create an application that will combat the issues mentioned above and that will successfully bridge the gap between animal shelters and people who are looking to adopt. I want both parties to benefit from this app! 


In terms of self-evaluation, during the planning stages I intend to create a list of features and goals, and as I near the completion of the project, I can check if I have implemented those features and if those goals have been reached. My project has a quite a large scope, and I am aware that I might not accomplish every single feature that I would like to include in it by the end of the senior design course. Therefore, during the planning stages, I will break up the project into various stages and set out to complete stages 1-3 for example, while having everything prepared for stages 4. I would like to continue working on this after graduation, so I do not think I will ever consider myself “done” with this project. As for if I have done a good job or not, I plan to get frequent feedback throughout the development process, and as long as the users say they are happy with the application and intend to use it again in the future, I will then say that I have done a good job.




## Final Self Assessment

I served as the Project Manager and a developer on my project. I defined the scope of our project and split it up into separate milestones and sub-scopes in case we were unable to dedicate more time to our project. Additionally, I drew the sketches of our app experience and laid out possible paths the user could take within our app, and then presented them to the group to get feedback and additional ideas. (The other teammates were also encouraged to draw their own sketches with their ideas). I found a framework, Xamarin Forms, that would allow us to make a cross-platform compatible application and found tutorials for my group to go through to get familiar with it. Furthermore, I build the architecture of the app, setting up the main navigation pages and sub-navigation pages with their appropriate navigation stacks. After building the architecture, I coded many of the features on our application, such as uploading and calling data to and from the database, accessing the user’s camera roll and being able to select multiple images at a time, along with many other features as shown in our demo. As for the database, I found the resource for our real-time database needs – Firebase, and likewise sent tutorials to my group to get familiar with it. I set up the pet tables within the database and all the corresponding data fields necessary. I also set up the storage within Firebase to store the images of the pets, which were referenced via links in the corresponding pet table. 

I believe I acquired an immense amount of skill from this project. Not only did I get familiar with multiple new frameworks, but I practiced building the architecture of an application from the ground up. I also got to improve both my front-end and back-end skills as this application required extensive front-end as well. I had some previous database experience before this project, but this time I had the exciting challenge of choosing the design of how the data would be stored and accessed within the database. I faced countless roadblocks throughout this project as it was all new to me, but I continued to search for solutions and often referenced Stack Overflow for tips. One of the biggest technical challenges for me was figuring out how to upload multiple images from a user’s device. Within the cross-platform framework, there was a function available for selecting a single image or taking a single photo for both iOS and Android devices, but this function did not expand to being able to select multiple images. Therefore, I had to research and learn how to do this in each respective operating system, and then construct an interface within the framework to call the correct multi-photo upload function depending on the device used. This was a challenge that took me a few days but getting it to work was incredibly rewarding. I am very happy to have achieved what I managed to achieve in this short time. 





